press the bell icon on YouTube and don't
miss another update you are the American
environment which also which allows
great science but also allows great
superstition now we read about the great
anti-vaxxers business going on in
America people are dying of measles now
users are back so how do you how do you
sustain this in such a suspicious
environment well look you know in
general the there has been there have
been so many conspiracy theories and
nonsensical theories around cancer that
you know you always have to baffle as it
were the superstitions around cancer
treatment in general oh you know it's a
conspiracy this etc etc but there has
never been in the United States or for
the matter elsewhere in the world a lack
of innovation and it takes time you know
you have to this is a this is an active
process it takes time to convince people
that this can be delivered safely I was
telling Karen the recently many many if
you might know this in the course of the
development of bone marrow
transplantation which by now has cured
several disease several blood diseases
including several leukemias when the
first tests were were done 88 patients
died it was the 89th patient who lived
and then began to show long-term
remission so if you're a doctor or if
you are the public you have to have
trust in the process of science such
that you understand that these patients
died either because they had a terminal
illness or because the treatment was not
successful for what reason what was the
reason because everything arises in
medicine everything arises as a
consequence of the project of reason you
have to apply reason to why you fail you
have to apply reason to why you succeed
you apply to apply reason to when a
patient gets a
response but then relapses all of these
are if they are done systematically will
trust and you know part of the problem I
think to be honest with the anti backs
movement is that we as a medical
community had become very complacent
about the success of vaccines what we
should have been doing is telling people
every year year after year is that the
reason your child is not you know having
horrible diseases such as mumps measles
and rubella among other diseases polio
is because we have been invented as
humans we invented mechanisms to prevent
your child from having these diseases
instead it became very routine your you
know you went to pediatricians office
your pediatrician gave you an injection
said now go write but again I have to
convince all of you the excitement that
that pervaded the world when the first
polio vaccine was successful was just
enormous you know children in that in
the summers in the United States of
course here when the wind polio would
sweep through the through the country
they couldn't leave their houses for the
entire vacation they would be locked up
in the houses in Boston City Hospital
you could there was a ward in which
there was basically a line of of
so-called ventilators because in those
days we didn't have positive ventilators
there were negative entities were steel
chambers which the children were put
into and the steel chambers would expand
and contract because they had paralyzed
the upper parts of their body during the
acute phase of the polio epidemic
imagine a row 2030 such incubators with
ten-year-old five-year-old children
sitting with the steel pieces moving so
that they could breathe and now imagine
10 years 15 years later up to the
introduction of the vaccine those those
incubators can't even find them you
can't even find a picture of them
so the idea around the entire anti wax
movement was that there was the the
nihilism was because I think we fail to
convey the excitement and the number of
I'm saved in the process
[Music]
[Applause]